README.md, before:

# SQLvis

A library to generate a graph-based visualization of SQL queries in Jupyter.
This library works best in Chrome.

## Installation

The easiest way is to install via pip:

```
$ pip install sqlvis
```

## Usage

For the minimum working example below, please make sure to download shopping.db from the data folder. 

```python
from sqlvis import vis
import sqlite3

conn = sqlite3.connect('shopping.db')
cur = conn.cursor()
```

```python
# Retrieve the shema from the db connection
schema = vis.schema_from_conn(conn)

```
```python
query = '''
SELECT cName FROM customer;
'''

# Generate the visualization.
vis.visualize(query, schema)
```

## Visualization explanation
SQLvis draws graph representations of SQL queries. Below, I show some queries and visualization examples.

### Example 1


```sql
SELECT c.cName 
FROM customer AS c, purchase AS p 
WHERE p.cID = c.cID;
```
| Visualization&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;| Explanation                                                  |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | :----------------------------------------------------------- |
| <img src="https://github.com/Giraphne/SQLvis/raw/main/images/node_join_alias.png"> | This example shows the basic graph structure we use. Each table that is called within the query is represented as a node. The node also displays its alias, if it has one. Relations between tables, such as JOIN conditions, are shown as edges with the content of the condition on the edge. |

### Example 2

```sql
SELECT * 
FROM customer AS c 
WHERE city = "Amsterdam" OR city = "Utrecht";
```


| Visualization&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;| Explanation                                                  |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| <img src="https://github.com/Giraphne/SQLvis/raw/main/images/selection_condition.png"> | Each node in the visualization can be expanded to show the schema of the table. The expanded schema is highlighted based on the contents of the query. Selection on columns is highlighted in orange. Here the query contains SELECT *, so all columns are highlighted. Conditions are highlighted in green. This query contains two conditions, both on the city attribute. |

### Example 3


```sql
SELECT c.cName 
FROM customer AS c 
WHERE EXISTS (
    SELECT pr.pID 
    FROM purchase AS p, product AS pr 
    WHERE p.cID = c.cID 
    AND p.pID = pr.pID 
    AND pr.pID < 10);
```
| Visualization&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; | Explanation                                                  |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| <img src="https://github.com/Giraphne/SQLvis/raw/main/images/subquery.png"> | This visualization displays a subquery. The two tables in the subquery are purchase and product. You can see that these are wrapped in a colored rectangle. The visualization can als represent nesting on higher levels. The deeper the nesting, the darker the color. |



This library is very alpha. If you find any issues or inconsistencies, please create an issue or message me.



## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

Improve clarity on dependencies and working.

README.md, after:

# SQLvis

A library to generate a *graph-based* visualization of SQL queries in **Jupyter Notebooks**. More information on Jupyter Notebooks is [here](https://jupyter.org).

This library works best in **Chrome**.

## Installation

The easiest way is to install via pip:

```
$ pip install sqlvis
```



## Dependencies

* [Pandas](https://github.com/pandas-dev/pandas) 
  * ```$ pip install pandas```



## Usage

For the minimum working example below, please make sure to download shopping.db from the data folder. 

```python
from sqlvis import vis
import sqlite3

conn = sqlite3.connect('shopping.db')
```

```python
# Retrieve the shema from the db connection
schema = vis.schema_from_conn(conn)

```
```python
query = '''
SELECT cName FROM customer;
'''

# Generate the visualization.
vis.visualize(query, schema)
```



## Visualization explanation

SQLvis draws graph representations of SQL queries. Below, I show some queries and visualization examples.

### Example 1


```sql
SELECT c.cName 
FROM customer AS c, purchase AS p 
WHERE p.cID = c.cID;
```
| Visualization&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;| Explanation                                                  |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | :----------------------------------------------------------- |
| <img src="https://github.com/Giraphne/SQLvis/raw/main/images/node_join_alias.png"> | This example shows the basic graph structure we use. Each table that is called within the query is represented as a node. The node also displays its alias, if it has one. Relations between tables, such as JOIN conditions, are shown as edges with the content of the condition on the edge. |

### Example 2

```sql
SELECT * 
FROM customer AS c 
WHERE city = "Amsterdam" OR city = "Utrecht";
```


| Visualization&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;| Explanation                                                  |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| <img src="https://github.com/Giraphne/SQLvis/raw/main/images/selection_condition.png"> | Each node in the visualization can be expanded to show the schema of the table. The expanded schema is highlighted based on the contents of the query. Selection on columns is highlighted in orange. Here the query contains SELECT *, so all columns are highlighted. Conditions are highlighted in green. This query contains two conditions, both on the city attribute. |

### Example 3


```sql
SELECT c.cName 
FROM customer AS c 
WHERE EXISTS (
    SELECT pr.pID 
    FROM purchase AS p, product AS pr 
    WHERE p.cID = c.cID 
    AND p.pID = pr.pID 
    AND pr.pID < 10);
```
| Visualization&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; | Explanation                                                  |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| <img src="https://github.com/Giraphne/SQLvis/raw/main/images/subquery.png"> | This visualization displays a subquery. The two tables in the subquery are purchase and product. You can see that these are wrapped in a colored rectangle. The visualization can als represent nesting on higher levels. The deeper the nesting, the darker the color. |



This library is very alpha. If you find any issues or inconsistencies, please create an issue or message me.



## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
